- [Tim] All right, so let's
now code the copy case.
What we're going to try and
do here is copy everything
in the Dir2 folder to a Dir2 directory
that's within the Dir4 directory.
So to do this, we wanna override
the VisitFile method, the
visitFileFailed method
and the preVisitDirectory methods.
Now the visitFileFailed
method will be the same
as it is for the print example.
Alright, so let's start
creating a new class for this.
We'll call this one CopyFiles.
Okay, we're going to extend
simple file visitor again,
so extends SimpleFileVisitor=Path,
accept that import.
Alright we start with the visitFileFailed,
and for that one we're
just going to pint out
Error accessing file
plus file.toAbsolutePath
plus a space plus e.getMessage.
And then we'll return
continue which will be
FileVisitResult.CONTINUE.
Alright, so that's our
visitFileFailed method,
nothing new there, we now add
the preVisitDirectory method,
or override that, so let's do that.
preVisitDirectory, now in
order to figure out the path
for the CopyFile, we're going
to use path.reletivize method,
now this method constructs a relative path
that resolves to a given path, for example
with a path to relativize
against is c:\path1
and the given path is
c:\path1\path2\path3,
then the relativized path
would be \path2\path3
which is the given path
relative to c:\path1
if that makes sense.
So once we've got the relative path,
we then need to resolve it against
the copied directories location by calling
the path.resolve method and that will turn
the relative path we got
from the relativize method
into the full path for the copied file.
Now what I said there may have
sounded like gobbledygook,
so let's actually look
at a concrete example.
Now one of the files
that's gonna be copied
is located over here in the FileTree,
Dir2, in the Dir3
subfolder, it's file1.txt.
Now this file is gonna be
copied into the FileTree,
into the Dir4 folder and
it's gonna be a subfolder
called Dir2Copy then we're going to have
a subfolder of that called Dir3
and then that will be File1.txt,
so that automatically is
gonna be the destination path.
So the root of the source
path is the FileTree, Dir2,
that's where we're starting and the root
of the destination path is going to be
the FileTree, Dir4 and it's
going to be the Dir2Copy folder
which at the moment doesn't exist.
So the relative path of the file in both
the source and destination
roots will be Dir3,
the subfolder, subdirectory \file1.txt.
So you call the relativized method to get
the relative path to the source root.
And you can see I've got
an example on the screen,
they're now for Windows to
how show you the extra paths,
the various paths, now when doing a copy,
this would also be equal
to the relative path
in the destination root, so
you then call the result method
to get the full path of a copy location.
So basically the steps as
you can see on the screen
as follows is the sourcePath
as you can see there
FileTree\Dir2\Dir3\file1.txt
and you can see
the sourceRoot then is going
to be the FileTree\Dir2,
the targetRoot which
we've talked about will be
FileTree\Dir4\Dir2Copy and
Dir2Copy will be a new folder,
the relativizedPath will be
sourceRoot.relativize(sourcePath)
so that will be
the call to actually get that path,
so that will give us Dir3\file1.txt
and the resolvedPathforCopy is gonna be
the targetRoot.resolve(relativizedPath)
and you can see there the path
is gonna be
FileTree\Dir4\Dir2Copy\Dir3\file1.txt.
So hopefully that's clearer
now, but we're essentially
figuring out the relative
path to the sourceRoot
and then appending it to the targetRoot,
because when doing a
copy the relative path
to both the source and target
roots will be the same.
You actually may have noticed
you need the sourceRoot path
and destination root path
to figure out the path
for the copy, but the
preVisitDirectory method
and the VisitFile methods are only passed
a reference to the directory
or file that's being visited.
So you have to save the
source and destination roots
as instance variables
in the CopyFiles class
so consequently we're
gonna add those fields
in the Constructor to handle that.
Alright, so we want a firstly private Path
that's gonna be sourceRoot
and private Path targetRoot.
Let's create a Constructor
and the constructor's
going to accept both the
source and the target
and assign the fields or assign
the parameters I should say
to the Constructor, to
the appropriate fields.
So now that we've done that, we can the
preVisitDirectory method
to get this working
and that will include some
printlns in there as well.
So we started work on
the preVisitDirectory
or we overrode it at
least, but let's actually
write the code now.
We're gonna start by typing Path
that's relativizedPath
= sourceRoot.relativize,
that's gonna be dir, then we're gonna do,
we're just gonna print out for that
so we can see what's happening,
so RelativizedPath = plus relativizedPath.
Next we wanna do the copyDirectory,
so it's path copyDir = targetRoot.resolve
and it's gonna be relativizedPath
and let's just print that out as well,
so it's gonna be Resolved path for copy =
plus copyDirectory or copyDir,
let's add a try to this
now and we're gonna do
Files.copydir and then copyDir
and we have to catch an
IOException if there is one
and the code of that we're just
gonna print out the message
e.getMessage for the exception
and then we'll return
if that does happen SKIP_SUBTREE.
Assuming we get past that,
we're gonna return continue,
which will be FileVisitResult.CONTINUE.
Alright, so you get the
relative path or we're getting
the relative path to
the sourceRoot using the
relativized or relativize
method here at line 32.
Then we're calling the
result method to get the path
for the copy, this is
on line 34, after that
we call in the copy method
to make the copy, line 38,
and if an exception occurs as you saw,
we're gonna skip the subtree by returning
FileVisitResult.SKIP_SUBTREE
and that means
that you stop processing
entries for that directory.
Alright so that's the
preVisitDirectory method,
overridden and working,
we'll hope it'll work
when we test it, let's now
override the visitFile method.
So for this one, just as with directories,
we're gonna use the
relativize and result methods
to figure out the path
for the copied file.
And once we've go the
resolved destinationPath
we can call the copy method
to do the actual copy.
And it's probably just as
quick if I just delete that
and copy this code from
the preVisitDirectory
and just change a few things rather than
just typing all that again,
so let's go ahead and do that.
We do need to change a few
things as I mentioned here.
For starters, we're
gonna change instead of
this being directory,
we'll make that file,
this will be file as well.
In the case of an exception
what we're going to do
is just print out the exception,
we're not gonna return
anything at that point.
But we will return a continue down here
once the method is finished.
So very similar as I mentioned
to the preVisitDirectory,
we're using the relativize
method and the result methods
to figure out the path for the copied file
and once we've got the
result destination path,
we call in the copy method,
you can there on line 55
to do the actual copying and fluff.
Alright so at this point now,
we need to kick off the copy
in the same way we did when
we printed the FileTree
in the previous video, so let's
go back to the main method.
And we come down here and let's
print out a message first.
And we'll go Copy Dir2 to Dir4/Dir2Copy,
so we know what's going on.
And Path copyPath =
FileSystems.getDefault().getPath
and the path is gonna be
FileTree plus File.separator
we'll do that so we can
do this across platform
plus it's gonna be Dir4 plus
and we'll do the separator again,
File.separator plus and the
folder name is gonna be,
or the directory name Dir2Copy.
So basically the path that
we're gonna be copying to
is going to be FileTree/Dir4/Dir2Copy
and obviously backslashes
if you're on windows.
But by using the File.separator we can
get this working for both platforms.
Alright, so that's the path
that we're gonna be copying to
so let's actually invoke some
code, so what we'll try here
and we'll put a catch in
there for any IOExceptions
that might be raised or thrown
and we'll print out e.getMessage
if we find there is an exception,
then the actual code itself is gonna be
Files.walkFileTree(dir2Path) and dir2Path
is still assigned from line
57 which is our source folder
and then we're going to do new CopyFiles
and then we're going to do dir2Path again,
which is our source and the
destination which is copyPath.
And that should be it.
Okay looking at Dir4 at the
moment, there is no Dir2Copy.
So let's actually try running
this and see if it works.
Okay so you can see that the
Dir2Copy directory has appeared
if you open that up and
have a look you can see
there's a Dir3 folder in the
Dir2Copy, we open that up
there's file1 and file2 and
also file1, 2 and 3 as well
still sitting there in the Dir subfolder,
we can close that down and see that
that seems to work quite nicely.
So looking back at our path, we had Dir2,
we had a Dir3 folder, we
had file1.txt, file2,txt,
file3.dat that was in the Dir2 folder,
then in the Dir3 subfolder
we had file1 and file2.txt
so we can see we've got a mirror copy
or mirror image of that in
our Dir4\Dir2Copy folder
and the Dir3 folder has
also got those two files.
So that's pretty cool, we've
been able to actually copy
that entire tree now, now
in a real world application
you'd probably want to beef up the code
to handle situations for example
like the destination file or
directory already existing.
What you could do perhaps
is prompt the user
and ask whether the existing
file should be overwritten,
for directories you'd then have
to decide if it was an error
when the directory you're
copying to already exists.
In addition you can pass more parameters
to the copy method to
specify what should happen
if the destination path already exists.
So you have to consider
all these scenarios
in a real world app.
Alright so you've learned
quite a lot about using
Java.NIO with the file system.
Alright, so let's finish the video here,
in the next video we're
gonna actually start talking
a little bit about mapping
common Java.IO operations
to Java.NIO, see you in the next video.